all right you guys hear me okay in the
back i heard the sound was a little
crunchy you're good back there awesome i
am loud so this should work out okay
welcome everybody welcome to saster
welcome and thank you for attending our
session
we are going to talk a little bit about
what's going on with sdr bdr xdr there's
like 5 000 names you should think of
another one
we're going to talk about what's
happening with those teams and our early
sales people and their careers
and what we're seeing in the market so
thank you for spending some time with us
we are psyched to be able to have
you all here with us i am gonna do quick
intros across the team here for a minute
we've got tony amy and michelle i'm
going to have them introduce themselves
so we'll start with you tony tony
benvenuto svps sales at seismic
been there for just under three years
loving it so far i feel like i'm a
dinosaur in sas there but a small stand
at marketo small stint at adobe i'd say
small but five and six years apiece
looking forward to the chat and what's
something you wish you'd known back when
you were early in that prospecting
career yeah yeah great question so
for for folks coming in entry level
something that i wish i knew uh that i
know now um is
is b
is be you is be your authentic self
right i feel like some people when
they're breaking into the industry
especially entry level um they feel like
they need to
walk talk act a certain way
don't do that we read right through the
bs be yourself it's gonna go a lot
further
all right amy memory from prospector and
something you wish you knew back then
okay so i'll just do quick intro yes
quick intro and then those two yeah um
amy appleyard and i'm the senior vice
president of global sales at
malwarebytes and i've been there for
about a month um so just getting started
i'm still trying to find my way around
uh and actually i'm based in boston but
out here now get to meet some folks from
my team for the first time physically
which will be awesome um and then i
think um
early career sort of memory of things
that i would i love your advice like be
yourself totally be yourself
but i actually think make sure you find
other people within the organization who
would help you like don't try to do
everything alone so especially if you're
in sales make sure that you are making
friends with people in marketing with
people in channel because these are the
folks who are going to help you leverage
and really help you grow
all right michelle
hey thank you um hey everyone michelle
benford i'm head of north america sales
at hubspot been with hubspot for almost
four years now and um i came up
selling cars
selling women's fashion magazines
selling media and somehow i got into
tech so i'm here today so i have a lot
of really interesting prospecting
stories from door-to-door to bdr a
little bit of everything um
so my advice
i'd say two things uh one's count the
nose if you actually embrace the nose
and know that they're coming i think it
really helps with that resiliency and
the ability to know that that's part of
sales and ideally you're working on your
no rate as much as possible
and i'd also say don't be a robot which
is a little bit of what you're saying in
that authenticity i think for many of us
who are overseeing
young sellers bdrs
i mean i get so much
robotic email every single day and you
can just tell it is a sequence that they
copy paste pump out and i don't open
anything unless it's personalized so be
unique don't be a robot cut through the
noise um
yeah that's a good path
that is awesome and anna baird everybody
cro at outreach
um early my i still remember vividly my
very first cold call
it was to symantec so those of you know
they're like here in the in the valley
virus antivirus software um and i was
scared to death i still remember like
literally not breathing when i left the
voicemail because i did get voicemail
and uh ended up with a 600 000 deal out
of that so don't be afraid to just put
yourself out there because you just
never know what's going to happen um i
think those things are uh are out there
for all of us depending on
on who you're calling and you never know
what is on the other end of the line i
think today with all the things we have
out there it is way easier to understand
what your buyers are looking for and
make sure you know that too it's like
know something about their business do
your research i think that is the the
biggest advice on the customized side
where all the buyers are expecting you
to and that whole journey with buyers
has changed especially these last couple
of years all right
we are going to kick it in and our first
it has been interesting so the wall
street journal just published something
recently
talking about 65
of the open
jobs out there for sales people i mean
it's like this incredible increase in
the number of jobs out there and i think
we've got a slide on this in a second
but it is a
a market for somebody who's looking for
a role in go to market and in sales in
particular and just wanted to kind of
take it to the team and tony i'm going
to start with you
we keep hearing there's there's
obviously labor shortages across all
kinds of industries there are
supply chain issues there's all these
crazy things why is this happening in
sales what's going on
good question um
i think to state the facts right sales
is hard it's it's it's tough and it's
high pressure right um i mean ask my
wife at the end of each quarter how much
of a delight i am to be around uh
i've gotten better um but but no
realistically right so you know user
adoption is a direct correlation to the
open wrecks that are in the market right
now and there's a lot of them and and
there's not as many folks that want to
jump in and kind of get their their
hands dirty um
you know the reasoning behind that at
least in my thoughts are you know we're
still in a global pandemic rounding the
curve hopefully knock on wood but still
a risky risky time so
and my thoughts you know there are a lot
of people still turtling and what i mean
by that is they're not poking their head
all the way out right and they're you
know
they're they're open to it they're super
talented but they're just not ready to
take that risk and uh you know obviously
we need to show them the way and and
coach them up but i think come january
february time frame we might be in a
completely different uh situation where
the talent is saturated and everybody's
ready to make a move um we're just not
there yet that's awesome
amy michelle you have thoughts on that
yeah i think only thing i'd add is that
there is a real need for it and i think
to your point people are a little afraid
or maybe are turtling i think i just try
to give advice to folks just saying like
you will never regret it you'll never
regret even if you just spend a year as
an sdr or bdr whatever you tend you want
to do for the rest of your career you
will always benefit from it and i think
just helping to encourage people to take
that risk like seeing it as a path to
anything it doesn't have to be a path
into just more sales or sales leadership
for sales management you will never
regret any time that you spend talking
to customers coordinating with
your channel partners or your marketing
team or trying to figure out like how to
message um it is worth it so
we're just encouraging people to do so i
think a lot of people put their hiring
on hold and i think sales folks were the
first to then sort of come out of it
after that so there's definitely a race
for talent now um even though there are
a lot of open positions yeah absolutely
yeah i just one added note um i mean the
talent war is real which is why i should
let you all know we're hiring at hubspot
or hiring at malwarebytes
sales managers directors we're launching
a canadian office in toronto just
letting you all know okay
but i would i would just add i i also
think um the idea of who a salesperson
was is different than what it really
actually is and one of the things that
hubspot that we do is we really try to
hire bright empathetic
curious people i think a lot of us do
this and it's not necessarily the
extrovert that i think
we used to think of in sales the athlete
the person who was hyper competitive the
lone wolf and so i think we need to
educate people a bit more on really what
the successful sales rep is like and
it's not that traditional
um
sales personality that i think a lot of
us probably grew up in okay well play
off of that for the second fan so as
you're trying to hire these maybe a
little bit differentiated skill sets
what are some hiring strategies for
people out there going okay we've gotta
just like you fill some ranks any tips
or tricks from a hiring strategy in this
environment
yeah i mean i think we have something
called employee brand and so we have an
entire team that tries to push out you
know what an incredible culture that we
have
we also build our sales plans
differently which i think once we get
people in the door we try to tell them
when reps hit 110 the company hits 100
i'd say for most of companies out there
it's usually with rep 80 then the
company hits 100 so we build our plans
for over performance and so i think part
of it is in that pitch you know that
where our skin is in the game to make
reps successful as opposed to we just
need bodies to get to 80 of your number
in order for us to succeed so
um i think it's really you know how are
you investing in reps and at the end of
the day people want to learn and they
want to earn and i think the learning
piece is so important and a key
differentiator if you're trying to get
talent
and we're going to talk about that a bit
more in a second we'll dig in on
development in just a minute but tony or
amy any thoughts on hiring strategies
that are
are out there that you're seeing
uh yeah so perfect uh perfect launch
point here um and i think the press
press release just hit today but
seismic is rolling out a program for
entry-level hires um and what we're
doing is uh we're focused on the
unrepresented candidate right d e and i
is definitely something that is top of
mind and top priority for seismic and
should be for everyone um and and we're
rolling out a program in alignment with
sv academy and really the the outcomes
and objectives that we're trying to do
is place up to 1100 candidates over the
next three years provide them the
training technical skills um coaching
mentoring interview
internships and we're going to be
partnering and give opportunities for
other organizations and individuals to
partner with us
you know related to not only funds but
volunteer time so you can guest speak
you can uh you know content creates you
can mentor a coach all the above but
this is something that we're rolling out
literally asap the press release hit
today um
more information swing by the size of
the booth
that's awesome yeah yeah we all need to
be looking at how do we diversify and
this is such a great place to do it
well i was also going to say that's
awesome i think that's amazing and i
think it gets at that thing that
michelle was also pointing out of just
kind of going for talent or somebody who
might not seem like your traditional
sales person or might not even know
about it as a career so i like that
approach
i think there's the usual college hiring
referrals like all of that that
everybody has been doing for a long time
but this is a this is really interesting
and um impactful and important
we also have just switched over at
malarbites to a remote hiring strategy
so we're hiring people anywhere um as
long as the manager is comfortable with
it so it's up to manager discretion they
could have a team that is entirely
remote um or some sort of a hybrid team
if they do want to be able to bring them
into an office but i think this opens us
up to a whole other level of talent
and a whole pool out there that we just
haven't been able to tap into because
we've been trying to hire near our
headquarters i think that from the
diversity perspective too i think that's
awesome all right so we're going to dig
into development a little bit
sdr bdr xdr secret weapons built-in sas
we created them uh though the whole
category exists i think because of this
the sas companies really putting this
super hyper-focused role into play and i
think as we've did that it was like okay
so then what and i think michelle you'd
hit on this they're looking for
development right this is a role where
like how do i build a career from here
and so a lot of us have been spending a
lot of time thinking about that we're
going to dig into what does that look
like and what's been working
um i think we can talk also about what
doesn't
that is totally on the table because
everybody needs to learn all of that
so when you look at some of the key
things that you've done to retain
develop the talent your young
professionals that are working their way
through the ranks what are some of the
programs you're turning them into future
coaches managers what are some of the
programs things that you've done to
develop that talent and michelle why
don't we start with you yeah i think um
i mean listen we're we're iterating on
this right now at hubspot so as you
scale you know what worked in the
beginning and it it does that playbook
doesn't necessarily work in a year and a
half two years so we're working on our
bdr playbook right now um i think a big
part of it is it's that that learning
and education and so you know for
example for a bdr team you know they go
through a one month new hire onboarding
program then they have consistent um
training and coaching one-on-one with
their managers after that but then it's
also hearing from the other aes and the
reps that have been promoted and what
how they've been able to excel within
the organization hosting those
roundtables understanding that also if
you start as a bdr your only path isn't
necessarily into sales and amy you
mentioned this like even if you do sales
for one year we have people that have
moved into sales operations or sales
strategy or marketing or customer
success it's just a way to understand
the company the systems the culture uh
the community around you and you learn
those professional skills those business
skills you get that business acumen and
so
you know i think i feel this way now i
had dinner with my boss last night she's
like what keeps you at hubspot and it's
the learning
it's just i'm continuing to learn and so
i think if you can create an environment
where somebody is getting fed
professionally
and they can really grow personally in
that professional development as well as
within the company it's just
it's a good recipe
i would just echo that as well i think
um being very conscious and very you
know specific about what your program is
and spelling it out and having to be
something that you can explain not only
to the people that you would hire but
also just internally so that when you're
asking for folks hey could you mentor
could you do this could you do that for
folks as they develop um that they
understand what their role is also but
i kind of think it is a lot like
when you think about bringing in sdr's
into an organization you're hopefully
growing the talent to stay in sales but
it doesn't always happen it often i mean
70ish percent of the time they do but
maybe they're just more interested in hr
or in recruiting or in working in
product development i mean in marketing
there are all kinds of paths that they
could take the goal is to keep them at
the company in my mind i think it's our
job to find just raw talent and train
them in the cyber security industry you
often just need to spend a year just
understanding the industry and once
you've learned all of that even if you
don't want to be a salesperson you
usually don't want to leave the industry
it's quite complicated and there's a lot
of competition out there so we just try
to keep them at the company um
is the goal and making sure that people
do understand
not necessarily like oh it might not
work out you might not be a salesperson
but just that there's all kinds of paths
and this is just an entry for you into
the organization i think that's such a
huge we we've learned the same at
outreach and we created when i came
three and a half years ago over three
and a half years ago now time flies um
it was we didn't have a career path no
development for
our sdr teams and we actually put in
career development from
the from in the smb team on the str team
to a mid-market team to an enterprise
team and then from those into our smb ae
teams and then obviously our mid-market
ae teams and on up and it is made and
then also into leadership within the sdr
organization and then also into other
roles so into our customer success
professional services all of those teams
it's been amazing to see
and so we keep doubling down on that
investment we put in a new program so
onboarding obviously i think huge
giving them the opportunity to really
demonstrate their skills so being able
to present in front of other groups we
also have them doing a there's a five
week that they get nominated into
preparing them to be an smb ae so our
small business ae team they have a five
week they get nominated into it they get
to work with the aes they get to learn
what that's like prepare their skills
before they interview for that role and
just that investment and then their
development i think has just been game
changing for us on just how excited they
are
that we care about them you know
everybody talks in this environment
especially with the pandemic and i hate
using the word i'm so tired of it it's
like okay when you pick a different word
this crazy time we're in
it is um it is people being seen and
heard
is so critical and that's not just your
young sales teams though they are
struggling probably the most sometimes
are younger professionals it is how do
you make sure they feel like they are
seen and heard and i think any program
that helps to do that is huge yeah
sorry one last out on that also having
your customers be seen and heard i mean
for anyone that you want within your
company to really understand the
customer and the prospect and the
marketplace and the product market fit
even if they don't stay in sales it is
just it is a you know receptacle of
information and a pulse on the market
and so it's such a great learning
opportunity for these young people and
or career switchers to really get a
pulse on um you know that business and
that customer yeah
and and you know touching to your point
you know career pathing is one thing
providing them options um but taking it
a level deeper uh especially from a bdr
to an ae we love the mentor system or
buddy system if you will and allowing
them to get deeper and and really ride
shotgun on a deal hey i've thrown over
this this potential opportunity over the
fence but now i'm gonna ride shotgun and
be you know a fly on the wall and hear
exactly you know what goes on to get
something across the line sdrs and bdrs
typically don't dive deep in any type of
uh
you know
demoing or um or you know procurement uh
cycles things like that negotiations you
let them ride shotgun and hear this
front to back
all of a sudden the light bulb is going
to go off i throw over higher quality
it's not so much a volume game anymore
and i'm invested i want to make my aes
shine because then inevitably i'm going
to be the next wave of aes that are
going to come in and dominate
you know it's so funny you say that so
we have that promotion track from kind
of smb to mid market to enterprise sdr
and i was having cocktails with an our
enterprise sdr team and this was when we
could have all cocktails with this was a
while ago
hopefully doing that again soon and i
was sitting there we were at cocktails
you know it's a you know not a huge
group because they're enterprise so
getting to that level is so there's
probably
10 12 of them
and listening them talk about their
customers and targets and what they
understood about their business blew my
mind
and so what we did and so they partner
obviously with the aes which is
obviously so critical as well for their
development too on on the account
strategy on the account plans who are
they going after how are we
multi-threading really looking at that
as a team they are expected to do that
as a team and who's going after what as
they as they look to make contacts and
learn about those businesses even more
importantly
and we're starting to use some of them
as now kind of the junior ae on those
accounts where they're booking meetings
booking smaller deals and big accounts
because they can
and you talk about having that
mentorship being able to shadow watch
what that was like partner on strategy
on an account like that um and we're
talking these are accounts with 10 000
people or more at the highest ends right
and so these are that's what they're
strategizing on it is amazing to see the
talent they develop in themselves
because of what they see and learn every
day but to your point michelle which i
love that and great point tony thank you
for for hitting on that
okay so
anything that you know anything else
that you guys are doing to keep those
teams engaged this is such that the
scene and heard piece of this is is obvi
these teams are remote a lot of time
first second job
um in their career anything you guys
have done to sort of keep them engaged
keep them feeling balanced positive
in the not pandemic environment that
we're talking about
i think um just going back to some of
the things about the recognition
things like making sure they're
celebrated on all hands it's not just
all about big deals but it can just be
about who landed even if we never won
the deal or if it's still in pipeline
just making sure that they're getting
enough of that and feeling kind of
connected to the rest of the org
definitely mentors i love that you're
doing the mentoring also but making sure
that everybody has some kind of a mentor
and then including them in team meetings
like letting them see some of just the
output of the work that they do is super
helpful um and then we've done
everything from at the last organization
where i was just book clubs kind of
ongoing learning things specific to
being an sdr fanatical prospecting is a
great one
there's all kinds of things like that
that you can do just to keep them in
that that mindset of just like actively
learning but then getting to have time
with whoever is in a leadership position
to talk through some of the stuff that
they're learning is helpful
and can we talk about spiffs i mean you
know
dollars drops dollars fives behavior
right um so let me talk so we have a
pretty cool one going on right now at
seismic and it's called the battle of
pitches right battle of the pitches and
we set it up like a march madness
tourney bracket if you will and we have
two or three people from each segment
each team basically going up against
each other for new messaging and a new
pitch right with the new narrative of
lessonly joining the seismic crew and
all of that so there's a little bit
broader narrative that's getting getting
rolled out but it's these these
competitive uh
pitches and you know they're they're
making their way through the ranks and
sdrs are doing fantastic right and
they're going up against aes and
crushing some right so you know you get
that kind of recognition you get
leadership on some of those calls in
some of those zoom uh
meetings uh and we're seeing it
firsthand we're recognizing them
firsthand we're applauding them um but
at the end of the day too there's an
envelope with money at you know dangling
at the end which also drives not only
participation but people are are rolling
up their sleeves and and getting into it
right making their own which which is
amazing to see
yeah we had a um
a also just taking a totally different
direction
we're doing we have an exact coach doing
a mental health tip a week as well on
how to stay
balanced oh got some crazy music going
on here
little beat here
we had you know this these this mental
health tip a week like eight weeks of
somebody coming going here's something
you do for yourself to make sure it's
like how to balance your all all across
the board it has been phenomenal
reception and i think as all of us know
what worked six months ago doesn't work
now so you're always trying to think of
how do we think of something new and
different to try to put in play
and it's it's obviously not just our
youngest team members it's a lot of the
team members across the organization and
i think that is always something i think
we also need to keep front and center of
how do we make sure we're investing in
all sides of the person because all
sides of the person is what they're
coming with every day in front of your
customers so i think that is a huge
piece of that as well
anything else
yeah i mean plus one to all that um you
know we need we really need like a hub
of icebreakers and a hub of those you
know mini workshops we do a lot of the
similar things we have like a demo like
a pro which is you know a demo contest
we do sandler sales if you can pick up
you know uh quid pro quo uh we have also
first double reverse yeah yeah negative
reverse yeah uh
so similar but you got to keep it active
and engaging and competitive and
give them some money and um but i really
think also you know your company values
tying people you know recognizing people
not just for being number one on the
charts really who's embodying you know
empathy who's an incredible team player
uh so we try to do a lot of that kind of
recognition as well
well and i think the something that you
all are hitting on and this will be a
takeaway from this session um and i'll
say it again later but it is
there's a there's a hiring crunch you
got to promote from within how do you
take a look around and what talent you
have and how do we develop them to make
sure they can get to the next level
so and whether that's next level sales
next level customer success next level
professional services you know scs
um all of these roles that these teams
can do and are so amazing at when they
get i mean i forget people who are sdrs
at our company they're
three roles in and doing something
totally different and i think that that
is just
if we remember that starting out what
are we investing in in that day one to
make sure those are the outcomes we get
as a company helps with that hiring
challenge i'll say we have somebody at
our company right now we call the intern
nicknamed the intern started as an
intern and is now running a mid-market
team out east and he's built his way
through basically all ae ranks all
segments dominated those and then wanted
to get into leadership young guy
crushes it always comes over prepared um
but that's what you want to see is that
kind of career path and then shout out
from the mountaintops and and let other
people see it recognize it so that
they're trying to follow suit
yeah it's funny he said one of our
managers who he was a manager in the
sdrs but like you know early still in
his career
is now running my smb segment um across
the u.s
and doing you know
tens of millions of dollars a year in
business and he's a vice president and
he rocks so
we also had one of our sdr's who came
through the u.s ended up transferring to
help lead the uk is running a uk team
now for us and runs the whole sdr team
in the uk for us and is thinking about
her next role too so just i think there
are so many examples and i think we just
need to keep those coming if we're going
to fill all those roles everybody was
talking about
yeah i'll just said we also highlight um
for lack of a better word the losers but
the people who have been on performance
plans
and they've they've beat them and
they've gone on to succeed and become
managers or directors so we do these
forums of people that were very close to
being let go and how they were able to
turn it around and what they did and
what their mindset was and what they
worked on and how they partnered with
their peers people that were doing it
well their manager and so we do a lot of
those highlights of people who were on
the brink of being let go and how they
turned that story around which really
helps with that retention as well when
it might feel bleak for these you know
underperformers
yeah there's success stories not losers
yeah
it is well in turn something like that
around you learn so much right you learn
so much okay so not all companies use
their best bdr's sdrs for the sales
function um and how do you define this
at your company maybe let's start there
are they doing something besides
sales how are you segmenting out
amy you want to kick off
yeah so is this just the age-old
question stick them in marketing stick
them in sales yeah yeah a little bit of
that yes definitely that's definitely
part of that part of the question i
think i think it depends on what the
what you want like what the outcome is
right like so if you're in an
organization where you are you need to
grow people within sales because you
have so many sales roles that's open
that are opening up like if you're if
you're in significant growth mode it
makes a lot of sense to have them within
a sales organization because they'll
just carry that lead farther through the
sales process like you can teach them
how to do the early qualification
i've also seen on the flip side i
company i was with before was just
acquired by vmware and all of the sdrs
sat within marketing
and they did a lot there were just a lot
of leads to sort through so they did a
whole bunch but then they what they had
to do was a lead they didn't hand you
something where they could tell you
about the decision maker they could tell
you about all the process or what the
procurement you know anything they
didn't do typical ban c or anything um
so it was just a different way to
structure it my preference obviously is
to have it in sales but i do 100 believe
in being very aligned with marketing
because your sdrs or bdrs whatever you
choose to call them
are the first kind of out loud voice to
the customer right and you want to make
sure that it's the same voice as what
marketing's voice is so i think it could
go either way depending on what you want
um do you have inbound versus outbound
well i'm both right now so i've
had other you're all inbound right so
we're all we're actually considering so
we have a bdr team for our mid market
and our uh corporate segment and
right now we have a proposal on the
table to build out an inbound demand
management team and i mean the great
news about hubspot is we have we have so
much inbound demand but how do we make
our reps deal managers
and hyper focus because not only do they
do net new business acquisition but
they're also on customer growth and
expansion so we're trying to take away
lead management and deal management and
customer growth and expansion and so
we're thinking about a new name inbound
demand manager
uh bad yeah whole new name that's a
whole new name
but but i'll say i'm i'm uh i'm a firm
believer of the center of excellence
that should live within sales um nothing
against my friends in marketing but i do
think there is a sales culture and
a level of repetition that i think is
beneficial to keep uh the bdr
organization in sales so
that's how i've always seen it in the
organizations i've been in
and i've seen it both ways right i've
been in organizations where they've sat
in sales
sat in marketing at seismic sit in both
that's a different conversation
but what i will say is that it's the
connective tissue between sales and
marketing right so you need to be
aligned to both sides of the house and
uh and there really does need to be um
deep alignment from all the way from the
leadership perspective too you know
leaning in um that's where you're gonna
get the most volume and quality
well and it's funny i think we have a
pipeline management meeting every week
and it is my demand gen sdr leader sales
leader ops leader marketing leader and
we do it together every week because it
is one funnel people so
it is one customer journey
so the closer we connect the stuff the
the better it is and i think the
technology today is obviously really
enabling that how are we seeing what
messages work i mean how do you do that
unless you're pulling all this team
together no matter where it sits where
are you pulling them together to have
the conversation about what's the funnel
looking like and how are we making it
more successful where are we taking
risks and trying things with new
messaging or new markets
you can do that if you have a cohesive
strategy and know where you can make
those plays so i think that is also huge
okay
um
anything do you have any any of them
switching we talked about this a little
bit ago from lead to deal management on
the str bdr side
anybody doing deal management other than
i was talking about that obviously as we
look at our upper segments a little bit
they're starting to do that
yet another team that we haven't
mentioned which is our chat inbound chat
team okay and so that's the group
actually amy and i worked together
previous to our current roles we were at
logged me in and we had a chat team
there too we've seen you know that group
at hubspot be able to take down those
real kind of starter entry level
i'm in here and i'm ready to buy we want
to really reduce that friction if
someone is just asking one last question
instead of having a handoff to a wrap
and then the rep trying to have them
expand let's get them in the door and
let's close them and send them a quick
link um and then you know get them on
the starter journey so
that's the team that's that's doing
those kind of quick hit conversions but
we don't have our bdrs right now doing
any of those um full sales cycle deals
okay anybody in the audience
have bdrs doing full sales cycle
deals at all
no no all right well here you go you
heard it first
[Laughter]
start uh start maybe thinking about
putting some of that in play because you
got some talented people out there okay
i'm gonna ask a question that wasn't in
our pre-meeting because we've got a
minute we got a minute
what would you change
about how
the function of sdr bdr is set up it's
you know we always take these steps back
and we say okay there's pivotal points
you were hitting that a minute ago
michelle like how you think about the
function and where it's going
and there's pivotal points in the
company of when you're changing it and
we've been talking about a couple of
them do you have them start managing
some deals do you how where do they
they're running with account plans um
there's all these different ways that
you can look at but there's also as we
take a step back today with what we know
in this remote environment in particular
something you would change about how you
see the function
but i'll tell you this is one of the
areas i'm
trying to build out right now but for me
it's really
systems intelligence
how do we get better propensity modeling
ai
ml when it comes to feeding bdr's
accounts that are appropriate let them
nurture let them work the accounts but
serving that up when it really is that
kind of
open forest of just go and find
something and there really isn't
direction i think it's a real time
waster and so the more that we can focus
them on the right things at the right
time with the right content knowing the
sequences that work personalization that
works
i think that's really the winning combo
it actually is a cost saver and you're
not going to be so head count reliant
the more system intelligence that you
have to feed your team so
that's what i would change because we're
still in too much of a manual process
and there are incredible tools out there
um that you know really help that
journey and i think that's where we'll
be in the next two to three years
no that's
awesome amy i think i would just keep
going with the something we were talking
about earlier which is when um i think
we think of it as a privilege now when
an sdr gets to kind of stay on and watch
the deal go through and see it to
fruition and experience a close or a
negotiation process and uh and in large
and i think that happens sort of on a
one-off like it happens maybe because
it's a big deal or because somebody is
being mentored but if that were actually
built into the program you would need
more sdrs um because they would have
less time um and but i think if you did
that it would make the ramp time into
being a quota carrying rep that much
faster and i think it would be
interesting to explore that just having
them stay apart they'd be listing out on
every call they would be just
understanding getting that mentorship
kind of live and in action just while
listening
but you would just need a different
little bit of a different structure
because we still need those leads yeah
it's funny i've coached some of the
teams that are looking for different
jobs like go listen to a qbr call with
your customer success person on the deal
you close right deal you brought in go
listen to what it looks like successing
that customer later because you're going
to learn so much about what they cared
about and what's going on so never be
afraid because you can listen you can be
a fly on the wall those are that's okay
you can say hey here's the three deals
like big you know deals that i was proud
of last quarter i'm going to go listen
to their first qbr's or second qbr's and
that takes you know an hour out of a
quarter right isn't that you will learn
way more than an hour's worth of of
understanding of what's going on at that
company so i love that
if this truly is a wish list um the one
the one thing that i would uh
add um
is a hundred more sdrs
no no bs right i think that they're uh
their role in the organization is
invaluable right they provide so much
they're helping to drive the pipeline
generation um when there is that tighter
alignment um sdr to ae they can get more
strategic about how they can go uh
attack their tier ones tier twos or
however you segment your your countless
uh but have a more uh just a
hyper-focused strategy behind how
they're gonna go do that um so with more
head count i can get more granular with
doing that and uh it's a win-win more
money in the bank no that's awesome it
is uh it's been amazing to watch the
orchestration and again back to like
even utilizing on the account planning
level right those teams working together
to go how do i go after these accounts
and what are we what are we targeting
with a partnership between that ae and
sdr i have seen just phenomenal things
happen we do we call it a boom email so
every time a deal closes there's a boom
email that goes out to the company that
boom email is the ae the sdr and the
solutions consultant that was on those
deals because
it is and it should be marketing and it
should be like it takes a village as we
all know there's no you know one person
that is doing all the work anymore um
especially with the technology we have
today
all right we have hit some amazing
topics we have an amazing audience here
anything else that we didn't hit on that
you think we should
i would love to just come back to the
diversity component because i think
as any sales leader knows especially if
you have an sdr organization if your
company has a goal of changing sort of
the composition of the organization we
hire so many people in sales and they
hire them in so much in that entry-level
role and they can move up so quickly
through the organization that you really
can move the needle we just do so much
hiring so making sure that you have a
really strong and firm
strategy in place for that you can
impact the total organization's numbers
and it's very impactful
yeah we just started actually because
this happens at all levels right so we
were starting to recruit
and similar to tony
that's an amazing program it's ours
isn't that extensive yet but it is even
recruiting at the historically black
colleges and we opened atlanta office
you know having a locations that where
you can hire diverse candidates in and
giving them an opportunity to stay
closer to home if that happens to be
home for them i think is huge we also
just started we launched it this week
it's called our rise program so i'm
taking our women sales managers and
teaching them how to be vps
so um i think we're i'm doing a small
group they're they're my my guinea pigs
we're going to take them through a nine
month program
um and we will see how this goes we're
publishing it on linkedin so we'll talk
about it live what works and what didn't
we're gonna give everybody a blueprint
when we're done cause i want every
company to do this because it's not just
for women it's for you know a lot of our
leadership how do we do that and and how
we pull that all together
okay
this has been fabulous thank you all for
joining us for being part of this
session we obviously um a lot of uh
abundance of positions out there promote
from within develop your teams invest in
them bring diversity to the table
you will win because of it thank you to
these amazing sales leaders for joining
us today
[Music]
you